Yes, an exception is an unwanted or unexplained expected event which occurs during execution of any
code that is at runtime.
It disrupts the flow of execution.
So what happens when there is an exceptions in there not executing a program or, quote, it will stop
its execution as soon as the exception offers.
But there might be possibilities that we want to continue execution of our life that is known and that
is known as exception handling.
So to catch the expression exception that is drawn by a program, okay.
And to share the specific trace or betas of that exception.
But we don't want to stop the execution of the program.
Okay.
That's that's why I call this exception handling in Java.
So this is very important.
No concept in Java and no to handle exceptions.
Right.
So my exceptions.
Course.
There are multiple reasons that exception can offer that is invalid.
So we are writing a board very that is giving some value as an input.
Right.
But what we want to do, we know what the user doesn't know, what is expected of the system if the
string is expected.
I mean, that is giving us a venue, then this will not work out.
It will throw an exception, a device value, loss of network connectivity or some limitations that
is memory limitations of photos, opening and unavailable files.
So if there is a old file and we are trying to write the file or try to win the claim.
So these kind of things will throw an extension.
I agree to disturb the flow of the execution, if not part.
And then there is a difference between what is an error in the program and what is the exception in
the pool.
An error indicates a serious problem that no reasonable application should not try to get right.
If there is an error, that means if in the code in condition statement instead of the condition operator,
some other character sequence is used.
In this case, the code cannot be executed.
We cannot catch this kind of error and we cannot continue the execution of the course because basic
part of the conditional statement is missing it.
So it will double error compiler time itself.
It will not let you complete.
That is error and exception indicates the condition that a reasonable application might try to catch.
So if you are trying to open a file which is not present.
Okay.
You don't want to stop the Division of order.
You just want the user to know that this you are the file that you're trying to offer is not present.
So you want to catch the exception I'm showing the user when you want to continue the rest of the program
execution.
Okay.
This will not throw you any combined limit.
So this is a difference between exception and.
What are different types of exceptions?
There are user defined exceptions.
That means you can create your own exceptions and there are some building exceptions.
So in building exceptions you can set checked exceptions and unchecked exceptions.
Chip exceptions are the place not found in an execution file not found exception and unchecked exception
set arithmetic exception plus gas expansion.
None point at exception.
Why most of the time you will the unchecked expect at this they saw.
Now we will see a simple example of exception how to handle the exception, if the exception is to how
to catch the exception and still continue the execution.
Let us see that video.
So let's see an example of exceptions here.
Exception throughout the class.
Exception to that is the class it throws.
The exception, which is a diplomatic section.
I appreciate exception.
Handler is not found within the method.
Okay, so let's see.
In this class, it is trying to divide by zero.
It will throw an exception, but it is not handled here.
Okay.
But there is another matter here.
There there is a diplomatic operation divided by zero.
And it is inside the try control.
That means the exception is handled.
Cash number, format exception.
Sorry.
What?
What exception is open?
Okay.
So then we run this two methods.
So see, here we are trying to get the exemption and put in the message.
Exception message.
Again.
So.
We are calling this particular method.
Compute division maternity and be a value will be one value will be zero and you're all two.
We're getting the exception.
Now, let us run this particular example and check how this looks.
Okay.
See, slash by the.
Get message will bring a description of the exception we know what is the description of the exhibition
here?
Because it is dividing by the state.
That is the exception you're expecting.
And that is what we are getting.
See message.
Okay.
So this is how you get first.
Whatever program statement you feel that will throw exception.
You need to add that code in to try block.
Okay.
And you need to start the exception here and show the message.
What is the exception that.
Okay.
Right.
So in this way, in the edge, regimented, you can find out if this line of code is throwing the exception,
then get you to do it and continue the block execution.
Okay.
So this is about exception in Java.
And if you have any questions, you can write back to.
Thank you.